In the previous video, we have done configuring
svi in the multi layer switch. Next in this video,
we are going to configure
an ip address for all pc.
But I will not configure on all pc,
we will just configure some pc and
test communication between vlan to make
sure our SVI configuration is correct.
Okay let’s start from room 3, this is vlan
20, the ip address let’s say 192.168.20.2
and the gateway is 192.168.20.1.
Next this is also vlan 20, the
ip address is 192.168.20.3,
okay here we can see an error message, the
ip address is already used in the network.
This is means that this ip is
already used by others computer.
Let’s use other ip, let’s say 192.168.20.10
and the gateway is 192.168.20.1,
Next this is vlan 10, the ip
address let’s say 192.168.10.5,
okay here 10.5 is also already used. Let’s try
192.168.10.10 and the gateway is 192.168.10.1
Next let’s try in room 2, this is vlan 20,
the ip address is 192.168.20.20
and the gateway is 192.168.20.1
Next this is also vlan 20, the ip address let’s
say 192.168.20.21, and the gateway Is 192.168.20.1.
Next here let’s configure for vlan 1,
the ip address let’s say 192.168.1.10
and the gateway is 192.168.1.1.
Next for vlan 30. The ip address let’s say
192.168.30.10, and the gateway is 192.168.30.1.
Last, let’s configure for vlan 10,
the ip address let’s say 192.168.10.30
and the gateway is 192.168.10.1
here also vlan 10, the ip address let’s say
192.168.10.31, and the gateway is 192.168.10.1
Okay now we have done configuring
the ip address in room 3 and room 2,
for room 1 you can try it by your self.
Next let’s test the connection between
vlan. Let’s test from vlan 10 to vlan 20.
Okay this is fail, let’s try again, still failed.
If the result is failed like this, we can
try to ping from the pc to the gateway first,
let’s say from vlan 10 let’s
try ping to 192.168.10.1
okay here ping to the gateway is success.
Let’s try from vlan 20 to the gateway,
ping 192.168.20.1, okay here this is also success.
Let’s also try from vlan 30 to the gateway,
ping 192.168.30.1, okay this is also success.
But communication between pc in the different vlan
is still failed. Why? This is because by default,
multi layer switch is only work on layer
2. The layer 3 function is not enabled yet.
To check it, we can see the routing
table in the multi layer switch.
Here let’s enable, and then show ip route.
Here we can see icmp redirect cache is empty.
This is means that the layer
3 function is not enabled yet.
Okay I think enough for this
video, in the next video,
we are going to learn how to
enable the layer 3 function
in the multi layer switch.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video.